# GRAD521_DMP_SOIL_HEALTH
Data management plan for Willamette Valley Soil Health Initiative.

My project is part of the National Resource Conservation Service (NRCS) Soil Health Initiative. Soil health is the ongoing ability of soil to function as an ecosystem for soil organisms and perform ecosystem services, and is assessed using a combination of several dynamic soil properties. The goal of the project is to assess soil health in the Willamette Valley using two representative types of soil in multiples management systems. In particular, we are interested in Woodburn soil and Jory soil. We are also interested in comparing till vs no-till agriculture and Christmas tree farms vs a vineyards vs a natural forest for the two soils, respectively. To this end, our research questions are, “how does the health of a Woodburn soil differ between a tilled agricultural system, an untilled agricultural system,” and “how does the health of a Jory soil differ between a vineyard, a Christmas tree farm, and a natural forest setting?”

Soil health is a holistic concept that encompasses a combination of several different dynamic soil properties (DSPs). The specific DSPs used vary among research groups, but we will be using those recommended by NRCS. In the lab, we will measure soil organic carbon, wet aggregate stability, soil respiration, enzyme activity, active carbon, available organic nitrogen, and microbial community structure. In the field, prior to sampling, we will also perform an onsite soil health assessment using the Willamette Valley Soil Quality Card. The data will be collected according to the methods provided to us by the NRCS. Our data set will eventually be combined with data sets from other universities working on their regional projects, so it is important that all the research groups follow the same protocols. 
